#TextMining #RecommendationEngine

This project involved creating a recommendation engine for one of the largest premium ethnic-wear apparel brands in India. Due to the customer repeat rate being really low (<20%) in the data available to us, and customer cyclicity being sparse and roughly coinciding with the festivals in India, a rule-based recommendation approach was thought more prudent than a ML-model based approach. 
Tags were created at a customer-category level; meaning, each customers KPI's were captured based on their transactional activity for the different product categories that the brand offered. Additionally, customer's gender was also derived by first identifying the intended gender (men/women/boys/girls/misc) for each product using the product descriptions, and then looking at the gender-wise quantity penetration at a category-level. This was done for 2 reasons:-
a) customer's demographic data capture rate was really low
b) The demographic details are often present for the primary decision maker in the household, esp in case of family shopping, rather than the primary buyer of products.

Having created the Analytics Base Table, aka, Customer Single View, a customer's proclivity to a category was derived based on multiple factors, like, category repeat rate, quantity penetration, ratio of the time-since-category-last-bought to time-for-repeat-visit-for-category, etc. using a rule-based approach. The recommended category for a customer was then used to send personalized campaigns to the customers, resulting in an increase in campaign conversions and incremental revenue.
